<wiki:toc />
----
= GISOO's Overview =
Since GISOO is an integration of Cooja and Simulink, you need to install Cooja and Simulink properly firt, and then it is necessary to add the GISOO plug-in to both Cooja and also GISOO-library to Simulink. More explanations about these steps can be found in the following steps.

= COOJA =

[https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki/wiki/An-Introduction-to-Cooja COOJA] is a mote emulator which has been developed for [http://www.contiki-os.org/ Contiki OS] but also supports [http://www.tinyos.net/ TinyOS] applications. It can simulate motes using actual compiled and executable code Contiki OS or TinyOS code. 
The following section explains the Cooja installation procedure.

== COOJA installation for Linux ==

In order to be able to run COOJA on your Linux machine, firstly you need to install the latest Java virtual machine (JVM). The JVM installation procedure can be found [http://www.java.com/en/download/help/download_options.xml#linux here]. You also need to install [http://ant.apache.org/ Apache Ant]. You can install it by issuing the following command:

{{{
sudo apt-get install ant
}}}

Finally, you can download Contiki from [https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki GIT], to a local folder in your system, issuing the following commands: 
{{{
cd ~
mkdir -p local/src
cd local/src
git clone https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki
}}}

Now you have Contiki and COOJA in your computer.

 == Cooja installation for Windows ==
The installation procedure for Cooja on Windows can be divided into five steps:
  #Installing Java Runtime Environment (JRE) and JDK.
  #Installing Ant.
  #Installing Cygwin and path environmental configuration.
  #Installing the MSPGCC (The GCC tool chain for MSP430).
  #Downloading the latest Contiki and run the Cooja in Cygwin.

which will be explained with more details in  the following:
=== Installing Java Runtime Environment (JRE) and JDK ===
As the [https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki/wiki/An-Introduction-to-Cooja Cooja] is a Java based simulator, Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is necessary. JDK (Java Development Kit) is needed for the next step (Installing [http://ant.apache.org/ Ant]). The JRE and the JDK can be both downloaded from [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html here]

 === Installing Ant ===
The build tool [http://ant.apache.org/ Ant], which is a java library and command-line tool, is needed for running [https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki/wiki/An-Introduction-to-Cooja Cooja].[http://ant.apache.org/ Apache Ant] can be used for this aim and can be downloaded from this [http://code.google.com/p/winant/ link].

 === Installing Cygwin and path environmental configuration ===
[http://www.cygwin.com/ Cygwin] is a Linux like environment for Windows users and contains DLL which acts as Linux API layer. This tool is needed for running Cooja on Windows and can be downloaded from [http://www.cygwin.com/ here].
By using the setup.exe, [http://www.cygwin.com/ Cygwin] installation will be started. The recommended path for Cygwin is C:\cygwin. In the step of selecting packages, although it is better to install all packages which takes, most of the packages can be left as “Default”. It is only required to change the installation status of one package named “Devel” to “install”, since it will not be installed by default.
After installation, the [http://www.cygwin.com/ Cygwin] binaries path (for example c:\cygwin\bin) should be added to the PATH environmental variable which can be done by running the [http://www.cygwin.com/ Cygwin] and using the following command:

{{{
export PATH=$PATH:/bin
}}}

=== Installing the MSPGCC (The GCC tool chain for MSP430) ===
In order to run Cooja, [http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/mspgcc/index.php?title=MSPGCC_Wiki MSPGCC] (Tool chain for [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TI_MSP430 MSP430]) is required. You can find the [http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/mspgcc/index.php?title=Install:windows download link] of [[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/mspgcc/index.php?title=MSPGCC_Wiki MSPGCC] for windows in [http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/mspgcc/index.php?title=Install:windows here]. After extract it, you need to add the /bin and /msp430/bin to the environmental variable in cygwin by these commands:

{{{
export PATH=$PATH: /cygdrive/c/mspgss/bin
export PATH=$PATH: /cygdrive/c/mspgcc/msp430/bin
}}}


=== Downloading the latest Contiki and run the Cooja in Cygwin ===
As the last step, the latest [http://www.contiki-os.org/ Contiki] version has to be downloaded from [http://sourceforge.net/projects/contiki/files/Contiki/ here]. After extracting the downloaded file to the C drive and running [http://www.cygwin.com/ Cygwin], one should change the directory to Cooja folder in the Contiki directory using the following command.

{{{
**> cd contiki-2.x/tools/cooja
}}}

{{{
**> ant run
}}}

After these steps inorder to verify the cooja installation you can create a Hello World simulation by the following steps:
  * Open //File > New simulation//, and click //Create//
  * Open //Mote Types > Create mote type > Sky Mote Type//
  * Enter a suitable description: "My first hello world mote type"
  * Click Browse, and select the Contiki Hello World application**: hello-world.c**
  * Compile the Contiki shared library by clicking **Compile**
  * When the compilation finishes, load the library and create the mote type by clicking "Create".
  * Enter **10** and click **Create and Add**
  * Press **Start** (or CTRL+S) in the **Control Panel** plugin to start simulating.


== Adding GISOO plug-in in Cooja ==
After verifying the Cooja installation, we have to add the "Simulink Connector" plug-in which can be downloaded from [https://kth-gisoo.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/files/gisoo/SimulinkConnector.zip here] to the Cooja. After extracting the plug-in folder you have to locate it on the following path:

{{{/Contiki2.*/tools/cooa/apps}}}

 = Simulink =
== Simulink installation ==
To be able to run GISOO you need to have [http://www.mathworks.se/products/simulink/ Simulink] to be installed on your machine with [http://www.mathworks.se/products/xpctarget/?s_tid=hp_fp_list xPC Target].
 == Adding GISOO library in Simulink ==

In the final step you need to download the GISOO-library folder from [https://kth-gisoo.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/files/gisoo/GisooLib.zip here] and add it to you Matlab path variable.